- [Instructor] Lets download and run
Apache ActiveMQ instance.
We'll need, at a minimum, Java 8 installed
for ActiveMQ to run.
You can start by going to this download page
and click on the latest release.
At the time of this recording, the latest release
was 5.15.3, so I'll click on that.
If you're using a Windows PC, click on the Windows link.
If you're using a Mac or Linux Distro,
you can click on the Linux distribution link.
After it's downloaded, I like to move the download
to an application folder, or you can keep it
right here in the downloads,
but you will need to unzip it.
Once unzipped, using your terminal or command line program,
navigate to the Apache ActiveMQ 5.15.3 bin directory.
Apache ActiveMQ makes it fairly easy
to start up an instance of the server
by invoking the following command.
./ActiveMQ, start.
On Linux or Mac, be sure to type ./ActiveMQ, start.
If you're using a Windows Distro,
you'll see an ActiveMQ.bat, so you would
have to type ActiveMQ.bat start.
With the instance started up,
you can see that everything is good to go.
Let's open up a browser and verify that it started up.
In the browser window, type in
HTTP://localhost:8161, hit enter.
Type in HTTP://localhost:8161/admin and hit enter.
This will cause a dialog box to appear using basic auth.
The default credentials are admin and admin,
and then log in.
Now that it's started, you should
see the following web console.
Quickly clicking on some of the links,
you'll see queues, topics, subscribers,
connections, network, scheduled, and send.
This course is not really an ActiveMQ course,
so I don't wanna spend too much time here.
The reason we chose ActiveMQ for this tutorial
is that you don't have to specify
queue or topic names via the console,
although you can if you like,
but this makes it so much easier for us to move on
and focus on Spring JMS instead of
how to configure an MQ server.
Okay, so let's go back to our terminal window
and let's stop the instance.
ActiveMQ stop.
Alright, we're done here.
Now, we can look at connecting this ActiveMQ instance
and sending it a message.